one of the things that people like get
caught up in in fights is that they just
feel like they're completely out of
control they're like what the hell I've
completely lost myself I uh don't know
what I'm doing and we've all felt this
we've all been in a situation where it
literally feels like somebody animated
us like stuck their hand up us and like
made us like a puppet and it wasn't like
it wasn't who we are it wasn't who we
wanted to be the important thing to know
about that is that's trauma so think
about it this way someone's got
PTSD some known known kind of trauma and
they were in a war in Iraq and there's
big bombs going off and now they're in
Cleveland Ohio and the car backfires and
they think they're back in
fuia the way trauma works is it brings
you back to a place where you aren't
right now it brings you back to the
place where the trauma
happened and asks you to relive that
trauma the whole fight the whole purpose
of the whole thing is so that you can
actually process the emotions that you
couldn't process at the time of the
trauma but what occurs instead is we go
oh my God we lost we blah blah blah blah
we don't feel anything we have the same
reaction we did when we had the trauma
the first time and so this is a big
capital T trauma PTSD War fujia but
there's other traumas like you know
every time I was scared my mom was like
be strong so I never actually got n
nurtured in my fear and so fear became
the enemy that's a different kind of
trauma and now when I'm scared fear is
the enemy I won't feel that I won't feel
it in my partner my partner's scared I'm
trying to control them so that they
don't feel fear so I don't feel it
because I don't want to feel it and
that's a different kind of trauma and
I'm back to my mom saying hey you have
to be strong you're not allowed to have
fear but what what the trauma is asking
me asking of me to heal is to actually
feel to feel that fear that I didn't get
to feel when I was a kid and so that's
how the nervous system just gets
hotwired right so you're just like and
off you go and now there's a whole bunch
of very cool tricks on keeping your
nervous system calm the easiest one is
uh just breathe you can do box breath
you can look that up it's really easy
you can just do 66 breath is one of my
favorite just slow down your breath be
conscious and that can like totally calm
your nervous system you can put your
hands on your body feel your body that
can completely calm your nervous system
but the idea is when that's happening
that's your opportunity the opportunity
is calm your nervous system so you can
be back in yourself and then feel the
thing that you didn't get to feel and
hopefully you've gone far enough with
your partner where you can have that
kind of agreement like oh I'm in my
trauma I need to feel some
[__] oh cool and that's an amazing
amazing thing like where Tara and I got
to a point in our fights where it was
like oh I recognize I'm not here right
now I'm in my trauma I need to feel my
stuff amazing thing happened the fight
just ended the fight was like oh this is
why we're having the fight the fight is
for you to heal this trauma great you're
in it you see it I'm right here for you
and she would just come to me and just
be with me while I felt it and I would
just come to her and i' just be with her
while she felt it and it was just this
every one of our fights became a way to
relieve
the trauma that put us in the place to
have the fight for the first
time and I remember this
story I love this story so my friend was
in this relationship it was like he'd
never been in a relationship
before that was long like he was like
one of those like one month sleep with
everybody but he had he found this
relationship
and he was really into her and she broke
his heart and crushed
him and we were sitting there talking
about it and he's like what do I do and
I'm like you cry you [__] grieve you
like and it's going to at the beginning
it's not going to be it's going to be
about the woman but at the end you don't
know what it's going to be about you're
just going to cry and so he had he was
doing this Great River restoration
project and he had to drive five hours
every week one way and five hours back
to get to the river and he would cry the
whole way there and we' cry and we would
talk like every other week and he'd be
like my God the sounds that are coming
out of me what the
[__] and you know Week 1 and two was he
was crying over the loss but then in
week three four five he was crying over
what got him there like the upbringing
the parents the why he was raised his
ideas of love and he just like kept on
grieving he grieved so much stuff and uh
before this happened he was kind of
overweight his business wasn't doing
well he was drinking too much at the end
of this like four or five months of
grieving he was like in shape and he he
wasn't dating but he was in shape his
business was thriving and he wasn't
drinking and it was an amazing switch
just because he had felt all that trauma
all the way through and so you can do
that by breaking up but you can also do
that in the relationship and it's really
cool in a relationship because part of
the trauma that we feel is that we were
all alone in it and if you can use your
Rel
relationship and each one of those
fights to find where your trauma is and
then be supported in it so that you can
actually realize oh I'm not alone I'm
allowed to feel this stuff that is when
relationships like so much
transformation so quickly so just like
my friend who went from you know
overweight bad business drinking too
much like that happens in a relationship
that's what happens in a marriage and
it's [__] amazing
[Music]